Question ID: 6b8a7c74
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Inferences
Hard
Question
One recognized social norm of gift giving is that the time spent obtaining a gift will be viewed as a reflection of the gift’s thoughtfulness.
Marketing exper ts Farnoush Reshadi, Julian Givi, and Gopal Das addressed this view in their studies of norms specifically surrounding the giving
of gift cards, noting that while recipients tend to view digital gift cards (which can be purchased online from anywhere and often can be
redeemed online as well) as superior to physical gift cards (which sometimes must be purchased in person and may only be redeemable in
person) in terms of usage, 94.8 percent of par ticipants surveyed indicated that it is more socially acceptable to give a physical gift card to a
recipient. This finding suggests that ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Answer
A. gift givers likely overestimate the amount of effor t required to use digital gift cards and thus mistakenly assume gift recipients will view them
as less desirable than physical gift cards.
B. physical gift cards are likely preferred by gift recipients because the tangible nature of those cards offers a greater psychological sense of
ownership than digital gift cards do.
C. physical gift cards are likely less desirable to gift recipients than digital gift cards are because of the perception that physical gift cards require
unnecessary effor t to obtain.
D. gift givers likely perceive digital gift cards as requiring relatively low effor t to obtain and thus wrongly assume gift recipients will appreciate
them less than they do physical gift cards.
Correct Answer: D
Rationale
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of perceptions of digital versus physical gift cards. The
text begins by explaining that the perception of "the time spent obtaining a gift…as a reflection of the gift’s thoughtfulness" is a social norm of
gift giving. The text then explains that although those who receive digital gift cards view them as easier to use than physical gift cards, a
marketing study nonetheless showed that 94.8% of par ticipants found physical gift cards more "socially acceptable" to give. The text specifically
contrasts the ease with which digital gift cards "can be purchased online from anywhere" with the fact that physical gift cards "sometimes must
be purchased in person"—suggesting the greater difficulty of obtaining physical cards. Given the text’s initial premise that gift-giving norms
equate the thoughtfulness of a gift with the effor t involved in acquiring that gift, it is reasonable to infer that people perceive digital gift cards as
requiring less effor t to obtain and thus assume recipients will appreciate them less, even though recipients actually prefer gift cards in the more
usable digital format.
Choice A is incorrect. Although the text does discuss recipients’ preference of digital versus physical gift cards and the relative ease with which
the two formats can be used, it doesn’t consider the misconceptions that gift givers may have of these factors. Moreover, the text establishes
that recipients regard digital gift cards as easier to use and therefore preferable to physical gift cards. Choice B is incorrect because the text
doesn’t consider whether recipients of gift cards feel a sense of ownership toward them, nor does the text touch on the greater tangibility of
physical versus digital gift cards. Instead, the text contrasts the two formats of gift cards in terms of their respective usability and the difficulty
involved in acquiring them and discusses how those factors influence people’s perceptions of the two formats. Choice C is incorrect because it
contradicts the text, which explains that recipients regard digital gift cards as superior to physical ones because they are easier to use than
physical cards, not because physical gift cards require greater effor t to obtain than digital gift cards do. Moreover, the text doesn’t characterize
the effor t required to obtain physical gift cards as "unnecessary.
"
