Question ID: f1bfbed3
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Inferences
Hard
Question
Mar ta Coll and colleagues’ 2010 Mediterranean Sea biodiversity census repor ted approximately 17,000 species, nearly double the number
repor ted in Carlo Bianchi and Carla Morri’s 2000 census—a difference only par tly attributable to the description of new inver tebrate species in the
interim. Another factor is that the morphological variability of microorganisms is poorly understood compared to that of ver tebrates,
inver tebrates, plants, and algae, creating uncer tainty about how to evaluate microorganisms as species. Researchers’ decisions on such matters
therefore can be highly consequential. Indeed, the two censuses repor ted similar counts of ver tebrate, plant, and algal species, suggesting that
______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Answer
A. Coll and colleagues repor ted a much higher number of species than Bianchi and Morri did largely due to the inclusion of inver tebrate species
that had not been described at the time of Bianchi and Morri’s census.
B. some differences observed in microorganisms may have been treated as variations within species by Bianchi and Morri but treated as
indicative of distinct species by Coll and colleagues.
C. Bianchi and Morri may have been less sensitive to the degree of morphological variation displayed within a typical species of microorganism
than Coll and colleagues were.
D. the absence of clarity regarding how to differentiate among species of microorganisms may have resulted in Coll and colleagues
underestimating the number of microorganism species.
Correct Answer: B
Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents the conclusion that most logically completes the text’s discussion of the different counts of
species in the Mediterranean Sea. The text states that Coll and colleagues repor ted almost double the number of species that Bianchi and Morri
repor ted in their study ten years earlier. According to the text, this difference can only be par tly attributed to new inver tebrate species being
described in the years between the two studies, which means there must be an additional factor that made Coll and colleagues’ count so much
higher than Bianchi and Morri’s count. The text goes on to explain that factor: researchers have a relatively poor understanding of
microorganisms’ morphological variability, or the differences in microorganisms’ structure and form. This poor understanding makes it hard to
classify microorganisms by species and means that researchers’ decisions about classifying microorganisms can have a large effect on the
overall species counts that researchers repor t. Additionally, the text says that the two censuses repor ted similar numbers of ver tebrate, plant,
and algal species, which means that the difference in overall species did not come from differences in those categories. Given all this
information, it most logically follows that Coll and colleagues may have treated some of the differences among microorganisms as indicative of
the microorganisms being different species, whereas Bianchi and Morri treated those differences as variations within species, resulting in Coll
and colleagues repor ting many more species than Bianchi and Morri did.
Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly addresses this issue by stating that the description of new inver tebrate species in the years
between the two studies can explain only par t of the difference in the number of species repor ted by the studies. The focus of the text is on
explaining the difference between Coll and colleagues’ count and Bianchi and Morri’s count that cannot be accounted for by the inclusion of
inver tebrate species that had not been described at the time of Bianchi and Morri’s study. Choice C is incorrect because nothing in the text
suggests that Bianchi and Morri may have been less sensitive to how much the form and structure of microorganisms vary within the same
species than Coll and colleagues were. If Bianchi and Morri had been less sensitive to within-species variation than Coll and colleagues were,
Bianchi and Morri would likely have repor ted more species than Coll and colleagues did, since less sensitivity to within-species variation would
