Question ID: 87aa7bab
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Central Ideas and Details
Medium
Question
A common assumption among ar t historians is that the invention of photography in the mid-nineteenth century displaced the painted por trait in
the public consciousness. The diminishing popularity of the por trait miniature, which coincided with the rise of photography, seems to suppor t
this claim. However, photography’s impact on the por trait miniature may be overstated. Although records from ar t exhibitions in the Netherlands
from 1820 to 1892 show a decrease in the number of both full-sized and miniature por traits submitted, this trend was established before the
invention of photography.
Based on the text, what can be concluded about the diminishing popularity of the por trait miniature in the nineteenth century?  
Answer
A. Factors other than the rise of photography may be more directly responsible for the por trait miniature’s decline.
B. Although por trait miniatures became less common than photographs, they were widely regarded as having more ar tistic merit.     
C. The popularity of the por trait miniature likely persisted for longer than ar t historians have assumed. 
D. As demand for por trait miniatures decreased, por trait ar tists likely shifted their creative focus to photography. 
Correct Answer: A
Rationale
Choice A is the best answer. The text says that the impact of photography on the por trait miniature might be "overstated,
" as some records show
a decrease in the number of por trait miniatures before the invention of photography. From this, we can conclude that factors other than the rise
of photography may be more directly responsible for the por trait miniature’s decline.
Choice B is incorrect. The text never discusses the "ar tistic merit" of either ar t form. Choice C is incorrect. The text never suggests that the
por trait miniature was popular for longer than historians thought—if anything, it suggests that the por trait miniature star ted losing its popularity
earlier than historians thought. Choice D is incorrect. The text never suggests that por trait painters shifted to become photographers.
