Question ID: 02fd3da7
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Craft and Structure
Cross-Text Connections
Easy
Question
Text 1
Public policy researcher Anthony Fowler studied the history of elections in Australia, a country that requires citizens to vote. Fowler argues that
requiring citizens to vote leads to a significant increase in voters who would otherwise not have the time or motivation to vote. Thus, election
results in countries that require citizens to vote better reflect the preferences of the country as a whole. 
Text 2
Governments in democratic countries function better when more people vote. However, forcing people to vote may have negative consequences.
Shane P
. Singh and Jason Roy studied what happens when a country requires its citizens to vote. They found that when people feel forced to
vote, they tend to spend less time looking for information about their choices when voting. As a result, votes from these voters may not reflect
their actual preferences.
Based on the texts, how would Singh and Roy (Text 2) most likely respond to the research discussed in Text 1?
Answer
A. Only countries of a cer tain population size should implement mandatory voting.
B. People who are forced to vote are likely to become politically engaged in other ways, such as volunteering or running for office.
C. Requiring people to vote does not necessarily lead to election outcomes that better represent the preferences of the country as a whole.
D. Countries that require voting must also make the process of voting easier for their citizens.
Correct Answer: C
Rationale
Choice C is the best answer. Text 1 claims that mandatory voting results in elections that "better reflect the preferences of the country.
" Singh
and Roy disagree. They claim that more voters doesn’t equal more quality votes—instead, they argue that forced voting may lead to less-informed
votes that "may not reflect [voters’] actual preferences.
"
Choice A is incorrect. Neither text mentions the population size of countries that require voting, or how that might affect election outcomes.
Choice B is incorrect. Neither text discusses the effects of mandatory voting on other forms of political engagement. Choice D is incorrect.
Neither text discusses the ease or difficulty of the voting process in countries that require voting.
